Add "On Code Reviews" blogpost (#25)
BasThomas/basthomas.github.io: _posts/2019-10-27-on-code-reviews.md

---
layout: post
permalink: on-code-reviews
title: 'On Code Reviews'
tags: [programming]
---

I wanted to share some insights into how I review code, learning from others,
helping others, and getting a better overview of the code base which ultimately
allows me to write better[^1] code. This post is inspired by a recent
[tweet](https://twitter.com/kristoferbaxter/status/1186290473322741760), a
similar [blog post](https://techbeacon.com/app-dev-testing/10-commandments-navigating-code-reviews)
(by [Angie Jones](https://twitter.com/techgirl1908)) and a [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ea8EiIPZvh0)
on the topic (by [April Wensel](https://twitter.com/aprilwensel)) from 2018's
[try! Swift NYC](https://www.tryswift.co) (which you should totally attend if
you get the chance).

- **I point out the good things.** This goes for anything really; not just code
reviews. If there's something you like or learned, let the author know. I

> believe this will make a big difference on how a review is perceived, and is a

Reviewer: I ran this post through grammarly and it seems to dislike "difference on how" and wants to replace "on" with "in". Not sure if I would agree with "in" but it might be worth rephrasing a bit.

Author: Having trouble rephrasing. I think "in" is an improvement, so I changed that. :)

win-win all around.<br />
This is what I believe to be the **single most important part of a review**.

> - **I assume best intent.** I've written questionable code before, or have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **I assume the best intentions.** I've written questionable code before, or have
```

> overseen mistakes. That happens. Always be kind and approach a review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
overlooked mistakes. That happens. Always be kind and approach a review
```

positively. 
- **I read the pull request's description _and_ ticket.** Yes, also the ticket.
This makes the time of everyone involved a lot more valuable. Seldom does this

> not help me getting a better understanding of the code. And understanding is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not help me gain a better understanding of the code. And understanding is
```

key. If something in the description or ticket is unclear to me, I try to reach

> out the author before continuing a review.

Reviewer: 👌 context is very important when reviewing

```suggestion
out to the author before continuing a review.
```

Author: Nice catch!

- **I provide context.** For instance, if I come across something that might
better be represented by a function rather than a computed property, I explain

> why I would suggest that in the given case.

Reviewer: I think you could make a stronger case here. Calling out things like precedent in the code base, Swift stdlib implementations etc. Maybe also give an example of code where you would make this suggestion.

Author: Agreed. I've changed the example and added the context I would give. :)

> For instance, if I come across a `struct` that only
serves as a namespace, I wouldn't only suggest to use a caseless `enum` instead,
but explain why I think that is the case (no pun intended): a caseless `enum`
has a non-accessible `init` by default, while a `struct` can still be
initialized without a `private init`.

- **I provide references.** Whether it's a blog post, piece of code, or
documentation I reference, I link it. This allows the author to dig deeper into

> the topic if they want, and may be helpful for those who read the comment(s) in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the topic if they want, and might be helpful for those who read the comment(s) in
```

the future.
- **I take the time to try and understand the code.** When I feel like I'm
having a hard time grasping some of the decisions that have been made, or the
code itself, I often feel asking about it in writing is difficult. If this
happens, I either take a step away from the computer and try again later, or ask
to go over it in person (face-to-face or in a video call, _not_ a phone call.
Being able to see each other aids understanding).<br />
An exception to this would be a pull request I feel is introducing too many
concepts at once, in which case I'll either ask if we could break up the pull

> request in more bite-sized pieces, offering to help do so in person if need be.

Reviewer: I personally find it very difficult to break up a PR that has gotten out of hand, maybe you could provide some tips here

Author: I'd love to go follow up on that some time, but won't do so here. It's difficult, and certainly a case of "prevention is better than cure". It depends on how an author breaks up commits... so many factors.

I don't know about, or want to know more about (e.g. a piece of code, business
logic), I ask. If the review already has many comments, I might do this
outside the review itself.<br />
Also, if I see code that appears to be copied, where I feel improvements can be
made, I ask if this is something that has been considered/if this is something
for us to consider in a follow-up pull request.
- **I re-read a review before I submit it.** I don't always do this, but I
know it helps. I've seen the author ask about comments I wrote, not (fully)
understanding what I meant. Though communication is hard, I feel this has
been happening less over time.
- **I feel responsible for the code I review,** meaning I use "we", not
"you". "We could consider adding a comment explaining why we need to ignore X",
not "you".
- **I review my own code.** Especially in larger pull requests, I look through
the code before assigning a reviewer, asking open questions to the reviewer,
making notes and/or making some changes. Seeing the "bigger" picture often helps
me catch issues/improvements to be made early, hopefully making the code review
more enjoyable in the process.

> - **I don't use words like "easy", "simply", or similar.** The fact something

Reviewer: IMO similar is fine to use and very different from the others. "Would it be possible to abstract this similarly to how we did that other thing?" or "This looks like it solves a problem similar to that other extension we have in the codebase. Would it make sense to unify?"

Author: Ah; I was only pointing out "easy" and "simply". "similar" is meant to indicate that list isn't exhaustive. I'll reword, as it seems confusing. :)

would be any of those is always an assumption to whoever is reading it, and
serves no purpose.

---

Keep in mind that this is not an exhaustive list, but rather a bunch of the
principles I try to keep in mind while reviewing, and there's still so much to
learn. If you have any thoughts on this post, like guidelines that you're using
that I've missed here, I'd love to hear about them!

Bonus: I'm a big fan of a tool we built at work to get a random reviewer for
your code. It's called `lotto`, and picks a random reviewer outside of your
team. It's great.

## On Non-Code Reviews

> Oh, and most of this also applies reviewing other things, like blog posts and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oh, and most of this also applies to reviewing other things, like blog posts and
```

documentation. For those in particular, I prefer printing the documents (so it

> is easy to make both corrections and remarks). That also giving me the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is easy to make both corrections and remarks). That also gives me an
```

opportunity to find another place to work, away from my computer. Natural light
helps!

> If possible, I always discuss it in person afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If possible, I always discuss it in person afterward.
```

Afterwards is a non American spelling (according to Grammarly)

Author: It indeed (somewhat) [seems like that](https://grammarist.com/usage/afterward-afterwards/). Today I learned.

---

> If you're interested in code review or proofreading of a document, I'm more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in having me do code review or proofread a document for you, I'm more
```

than happy to help out. Just send me a direct message [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/{{ site.twitter_username }}).[^2]

<sub>Thanks _so much_ to [Kristaps](https://twitter.com/fassko),
[Donny](https://twitter.com/DonnyWals), [Fernando](https://twitter.com/fmo_91),
[João](https://twitter.com/NSMyself), [Barbie](https://twitter.com/barbieinbeta)
and [Mustapha](https://twitter.com/ben_muta) for proofreading!</sub>

[^1]: I suppose "better" is always subjective here, but I can take the learnings from these reviews and the insights of the current code base to help make certain decisions.

> [^2]: I find it frustrating that asking for these things myself is arguably one of my weaker points. 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer: Good post! I think too many people focus on PRs and code reviews as ways to point out mistakes to people, and too little on learning from each other, respecting each other's work and effort.

One thing that I would love to read your opinion on is what to do with "nits". Sometimes there are small changes that should be made to a PR to make it perfect / good. Like small changes to phrasing in documentation comments. I usually just add those as comments and approve the PR anyway. Curious to see what you think

Author: Thanks!

On nits:

First of all, "to make it perfect" is impossible. 😄

I think nits are an important part of a code review, but require (thorough) documentation on their expectations. I believe they should never block a pull request from being merged, and should be distinguishable from other comments (I know I brought up the documentation, so this is somewhat ironic, but we use 💅 as an unwritten rule to distinguish nits from other comments).

I wouldn't want a reviewer not to point out these small things, as in my experience in the worst case they make something just a bit better, and in the best case make you think about it a bit more, realizing a bigger improvement can be made.

On approving: I also tend to just "comment" on a pull request if there are many open questions/comments, rather than "requesting changes". That said, it would also be something we could document better so that its meaning is better understood by others.

---
layout: post
permalink: on-code-reviews
title: 'On Code Reviews'
tags: [programming]
---

I wanted to share some insights into how I review code, learning from others,
helping others, and getting a better overview of the code base which ultimately
allows me to write better[^1] code. This post is inspired by a recent

> [tweet](https://twitter.com/kristoferbaxter/status/1186290473322741760), a]

Reviewer 2: >a]

I assume is just 

> a

Author: Nice catch!

similar [blog post](https://techbeacon.com/app-dev-testing/10-commandments-navigating-code-reviews)
(by [Angie Jones](https://twitter.com/techgirl1908)) and a [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ea8EiIPZvh0)
on the topic (by [April Wensel](https://twitter.com/aprilwensel)) from 2018's

> try! Swift NYC.

Reviewer 2: Add link to the conference, maybe folks would be interested to attend it. ;)

Author: Yes!

- **I point out the good things.** This goes for anything really; not just code
reviews. If there's something you like or learned, let the author know. I
believe this will make a big difference on how a review is perceived, and is a

> win-win all around.<br />

Reviewer 2: Remove `<br/>`

Author: I wanted to make sure there's a line break there 😄

Reviewer 2: Hmm ok I didn’t know that you can use html tags in markdown.

Author: Markdown will end up just being html, so you can always do that! The same goes for the `<sub></sub>` at the bottom of the post :)

This is what I believe to be the **single most important part of a review**.
- **I read the pull request's description _and_ ticket.** Yes, also the ticket.
Seldom does that not help me getting a better understanding of the code. And

> understanding is key. This makes everyone involved's time a lot more valuable.

Reviewer 3: There's nothing wrong with this phrase, it reads totally find and like a regular conversation, I would just consider phrasing it like "this makes the time of everyone involved a lot more valuable". This is super nit, I just didn't know how formal you wanted the article to be :)

Reviewer 2: I agree with @barbaravanaki

Maybe start with most important that reading ticket helps with understanding the PR not
> seldom does that not help ...

Author: Thanks! It was a sentence I was struggling with when I wrote it, for sure. Changed!

If something in the description or ticket is unclear to me, I try to reach out

> the the author before continuing a review.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the author before continuing a review.
```

> - **I provide context.** If I come across something that "might better be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **I provide context.** For instance, if I come across something that might better be
```

> represented by a function rather than a computed property", I explain why I

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
represented by a function rather than a computed property, I explain why I
```

would suggest that in the given case.
- **I provide references.** Whether it's a blog post, piece of code, or
documentation I reference, I link it. This allows the author to dig deeper into
the topic if they want, and may be helpful for those who read the comment(s) in
the future.
- **I take the time to try and understand the code.** When I feel like I'm

> having a hard time grasping some of the decisions that have been made, or the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
having a hard time grasping some of the decisions that have been made (or the
```

Author: Hm, why would you change that here?

> code that has been written in this pull request, I often feel asking about it

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
code itself I often feel asking about it
```

in writing is difficult. If this happens, I either take a step away from the
computer and try again later, or ask to go over it in person (face-to-face or

> in a video call, _not_ a phone call. Being able to see each other aids

Reviewer 3: I really like this point: so much of communication is nonverbal, even in regards to something as technical as code. Videos just add a certain layer of understanding you can't get even with 3 phone calls.

> in a video call, _not_ a phone call. Being able to see each other aids

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in a video call, _not_ a phone call, nor email or even Slack). Being able to see each other aids
```

Author: I'm going to skip on these as I'm assuming anything "non-voice" is a no-go here anyway. 😊

> understanding.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
understanding).
```

- **I ask questions.** I would call myself a curious person. If I see something

> I don't know about, or want to know more about (eg. a piece of code, business

Reviewer 3: e.g.*

logic), I ask. If the review already has many comments, I might do this
outside the review itself.

> - **I re-read your review before submitting it.** I don't always do this, but I

Reviewer 4: Not sure what you mean in this case; before submitting where exactly?

Author: Ah; I've changed this to `I re-read a review before I submit it.`
With that, I mean before I submit the review (in our case, on GitHub). I'm not sure how to better describe that without mentioning a specific product? 😕

> know it helps. I've seen the author ask about comments I wrote, and having a

Reviewer 3: This sentence makes sense, but uses 2 verb tenses. I would consider rewriting it to say "ask about comments I wrote, citing a hard time understanding what I meant." There are a dozen ways to do this one- I suggest picking the one you like that matches your voice :)

Author: I love this change! Thanks :)

hard time understanding what I meant. I feel that this has been happening less

> and less over time, though! But communication is hard.

Reviewer 3: This one is again super nit, and depends on what kind of tone you're trying to leave on. Currently, this reads as 'hey, I'm having some progess on this, but it's a super up hill battle and I'm going to outline some of the challenges with communication'- which may be what you're looking for!

But if you were trying to end on a more hopeful or optimistic note, I would suggest switching it around to say "Though communication is hard, I feel that this has been happening less over time!". Again, nothing grammatical here, I just want to make sure we create the right tones and emotions you want.

Author: Perfect, much better!

> - **I feel responsibility for the code I review,** meaning I use "we", not

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **I feel responsible for the code I review,** meaning I use "we", not
```

"you". "We could consider adding a comment explaining why we need to ignore X",
not "you".
- **I review my own code.** Especially in larger pull requests, I look through
the code before assigning a reviewer, either asking open questions to the

> reviewer, making notes and/or making some changes. Seeing the "bigger" picture

Reviewer 3: I got a bit confused beginning at "either": are you saying you ask questions to the reviewer before assigning, or saying you do X,Y, and Z before ever asking questions to the reviewer?

Author: I've omitted "either", I agree it was confusing and not adding any value.

often helps me catch issues/improvements to be made early, hopefully making the
code review more enjoyable in the process.

---

Keep in mind that this is not an exhaustive list, but rather a bunch of the
principles I try to keep in mind while reviewing. :)

Bonus: I'm a big fan of a tool we built at work to get a random reviewer for
your code. It's called `lotto`, and picks a random reviewer outside of your
team. It's great.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do you have something you still haven’t tried or have seen that it works for others?

Basically showing that you are still learning, want people to reach out with ideas or suggestions.

Author: Good point; added!

## On Non-Code Reviews

Oh, and most of this also applies reviewing other things, like blog posts and
documentation. For those in particular, I prefer printing the documents (so it

> is easy to make both corrections and remarks), also giving me an opportunity to

Reviewer 3: This is fine as is, I would just respectfully suggest starting a new sentence after remarks, and say "This also gives me x" just so the sentence isn't as long. Stylistically, it also adds a bit to that voice saying "hey, this is definitely a bonus feature".
